pySCG bugfix for CWE-191 as per #835 (#838)
ossf/wg-best-practices-os-developers: docs/Secure-Coding-Guide-for-Python/CWE-682/CWE-191/README.md

## Non-Compliant Code Example

The `noncompliant02.py` example uses `datetime.timedelta()` to get `x` hours in the future or past for time travelers. The `datetime` is interfacing with the operating system through the `libpython` library written in `C`. Overall the Georgian calender ISO 8601 is limited to 1 - 9999 years [Python datetime 2025](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#strftime-and-strptime-format-codes).

*[noncompliant02.py](noncompliant02.py):*

```python
# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: OpenSSF project contributors
# SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
"""Noncompliant Code Example"""

from datetime import datetime, timedelta

> def get_datetime(currtime: datetime, hours: int):

Reviewer: I am getting this error with Pylint, might be a good idea to look into this: 

Redefining name 'currtime' from outer scope (line 26)Pylint[W0621:redefined-outer-name](https://pylint.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user_guide/messages/warning/redefined-outer-name.html).

This also applies for hours:

Redefining name 'hours' from outer scope (line 43)Pylint[W0621:redefined-outer-name](https://pylint.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user_guide/messages/warning/redefined-outer-name.html)

Author: going to change these names

    """
    Gets the time n hours in the future or past

    Parameters:
    currtime (datetime): A datetime object with the starting datetime.
    hours (int): Hours going forward or backwards

    Returns:
    datetime: A datetime object
    """
    return currtime + timedelta(hours=hours)

#####################
# attempting to exploit above code example
#####################
datetime.fromtimestamp(0)
currtime = datetime.fromtimestamp(1)  # 1st Jan 1970

# OK values are expected to work
# NOK values trigger OverflowErrors in libpython written in C
hours_list = [
    0,  # OK
    1,  # OK
    70389526,  # OK
    70389527,  # NOK
    51539700001,  # NOK
    24000000001,  # NOK
    -1,  # OK
    -17259889,  # OK
    -17259890,  # NOK
    -23999999999,  # NOK
    -51539699999,  # NOK
]
for hours in hours_list:
    try:
        result = get_datetime(currtime, hours)
        print(f"{hours} OK, datetime='{result}'")

>     except Exception as exception:

Reviewer: I am getting this error in Pylint, saying that the exception is too general: 

Catching too general exception ExceptionPylint[W0718:broad-exception-caught](https://pylint.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user_guide/messages/warning/broad-exception-caught.html)

Author: attack section is not expected to be clean

        print(f"{hours} {repr(exception)}")
```

The `noncompliant02.py` code is triggering various `OverflowError` exceptions in the `libpython` library:

- `date value out of range`
- `OverflowError('Python int too large to convert to C int')`
- `days=1000000000; must have magnitude <= 999999999`

## Compliant Solution

> This `compliant02.py` solution is peventing `OverflowError` exception in `libpython` by safeguarding the upper and lowern limits in the provided `hours`. Upper and lower limit for `currtime` as well as inputsanitation and secure logging are missing and must be added when interfacing with a lesser trusted entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `compliant02.py` solution is preventing `OverflowError` exception in `libpython` by safeguarding the upper and lower limits in the provided `hours`. Upper and lower limit for `currtime` as well as input sanitization and secure logging are missing and must be added when interfacing with a lesser trusted entity.
```

*[compliant02.py](compliant02.py):*

```python
# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: OpenSSF project contributors
# SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
"""Compliant Code Example"""

from datetime import datetime, timedelta
import logging

# Enabling verbose debugging
# logging.basicConfig(level=logging.DEBUG)

> def get_datetime(currtime: datetime, hours: int):

Reviewer: Again seeing the outer scope warning:

Redefining name 'currtime' from outer scope (line 49)Pylint[W0621:redefined-outer-name](https://pylint.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user_guide/messages/warning/redefined-outer-name.html)

Redefining name 'hours' from outer scope (line 66)Pylint[W0621:redefined-outer-name](https://pylint.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user_guide/messages/warning/redefined-outer-name.html)

    hours_min = timedelta_lowerbound.total_seconds() // 3600 * -1

    # Calculate upper boundary, hours from year 9999 to currtime:
    timedelta_upperbound = datetime(9999, 12, 31) - currtime
    hours_max = timedelta_upperbound.total_seconds() // 3600

    # TODO: proper secure logging
    logging.debug(
        "hours_max=%s hours_min=%s hours=%s",
        hours_max,
        hours_min,
        hours,
    )
    if (hours > hours_max) or (hours < hours_min):
        raise ValueError("hours out of range")

    return currtime + timedelta(hours=hours)

#####################
# attempting to exploit above code example
#####################
datetime.fromtimestamp(0)
currtime = datetime.fromtimestamp(1)  # 1st Jan 1970

# OK values are expected to work
# NOK values trigger OverflowErrors in libpython written in C
hours_list = [
    0,  # OK
    1,  # OK
    70389526,  # OK
    70389527,  # NOK
    51539700001,  # NOK
    24000000001,  # NOK
    -1,  # OK
    -17259889,  # OK
    -17259890,  # NOK
    -23999999999,  # NOK
    -51539699999,  # NOK
]
for hours in hours_list:
    try:
        result = get_datetime(currtime, hours)
        print(f"{hours} OK, datetime='{result}'")

>     except Exception as exception:

Reviewer: Again with the general exception warning, not sure if it is relevant a I believe you want to catch all exceptions: 

Catching too general exception ExceptionPylint[W0718:broad-exception-caught](https://pylint.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user_guide/messages/warning/broad-exception-caught.html)

Author: the attack section does not require to be 'compliant' so won't change this.

        print(f"{hours} {repr(exception)}")
```

> The `compliant02.py` example is protecting the lower level c-lib from an `OverflowError` by setting boundaries for valid values in `hours`. Similar issues occure with any functionality provided through the operating system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `compliant02.py` example is protecting the lower level c-lib from an `OverflowError` by setting boundaries for valid values in `hours`. Similar issues occur with any functionality provided through the operating system.
```
